# `social structure learning`

Animal behavior is shaped through social experience; often adaptively, at times unknowingly, our life among others guides our relationship with the world around us. **`Social conditioning`**  is a primordial form of social learning: cues from a conspecific (e.g. bodliy responses, vocalizations) are thought to provide a teaching signal, enabeling observers to learn about the value of environmental stimuli (e.g. the taste of food, the temperature of an object). Because the neural substrates recruited during social conditioning largely overlap with those necessary for first-person conditionind, it has been argued that social and direct conditioning also share a common computational framework. Informally, this is articulated as learning the pairwise associations between items within the environment using the valenced social cues available from conspecifics. Formallly, this has been modeled using temporal difference reinforcement learning algorithms.

While parsimonious, this associative framework fails to account for well documented behavioral phenemona, even in first person experiments. After learning to associate a cue with some appetative or aversive outcome (conditioning), and then observing multiple presentations where the cue no longer predicts that valenced outcome (extinction), associative models requires that a subject has "unlearned" the association between cue and outcome. Yet even without subsequent reinforcement, animals reliably demonstrate a conditioned response to a previously conditioned cue, even after multiple rounds of extinction. The persistence of these learned associations is often cited as evidence for the contextual dependence of learned associations, and the uncertainty subjects have over the state of the world. More recently, these ideas have been formalized within a bayesian framework of **`structure learning`**, which suggests that animals learn about the latent state of the environment, not simply pairwise associations between events. 

Employing self-report, physiological, and attentional measures in a two-day study, here we present the first experimental evidence that mammals demonstrate renewal after undergoing social fear conditioning; after undergoing social conditioning and extinction on day one, subjects nonetheless demonstrate a spontaneous fear response when presented with the conditioned stimuli on day two. Interestingly, these results not predicted by trait- and state-level self report measures, but they are predicted by implicit measures of attention. Contrary to prevailing theories of emotion and emotion learning, we find that attention to causal relationships, not faces, predicts physiological measures. From these results we argue `a)` observers learn about environmental structure through social observation, not simply pairwise relationship between items, and `b)` this form of **`social structure learning`** recruits implicit, evolutionarily conserved mechanisms that may guide attention, but are not necessarilly tethered to explicit cognitive processes. 
